---
title: Nushell 0.73
author: The Nu Authors
author_site: https://twitter.com/nu_shell
author_image: https://www.nushell.sh/blog/images/nu_logo.png
excerpt: Today, we're releasing version 0.73 of Nu. 
---

# Nushell 0.73

Nushell, or Nu for short, is a new shell that takes a modern, structured approach to your command line. It works seamlessly with the data from your filesystem, operating system, and a growing number of file formats to make it easy to build powerful command line pipelines.

Today, we're releasing version 0.73 of Nu. This release includes many new features: new math commands, an interactive data viewer, and many command refinements
<!-- more -->

# Where to get it

Nu 0.73 is available as [pre-built binaries](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/releases/tag/0.73.0) or from [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/nu). If you have Rust installed you can install it using `cargo install nu`.

NOTE: as part of this release, we are no longer including additional features in `--features=extra`. With the previous 0.72 release, SQLite features had moved into the main Nushell installation and dataframe functionality is now part of `--features=dataframe`.

As part of this release, we also publish a set of optional plugins you can install and use with Nu. To install, use `cargo install nu_plugin_<plugin name>`.

# Themes of this release / New features

## Experimental interactive `explore` command ([zhiburt](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/pull/6984))

This release includes a new experimental command called `explore` for viewing Nu data in an interactive UI. Some things to try:

- pipe a large table to `explore` (ex: `ls | explore`) and use `explore` as a fancy pager
- run `explore`, then type `:try` and press the Enter key to enter a mode where you can run commands inside `explore`

`explore` is highly experimental and we expect it to change in the future. [Please report any issues you discover](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/issues/new/choose).

## Redirection

Continued work has improved how you can redirect STDOUT and STDERR to files

## Command refinement, simplification, and elimination

This release contains many breaking changes to Nu's built-in commands (sorry!). As we move toward version 1.0 we want to ensure that Nu ships with a small curated set of consistent, well-designed "standard library" commands. This requires taking a hard look at existing commands, and in some cases breaking changes are unavoidable. We expect that this effort will span a few release cycles.

### New `math` commands ([sholderbach](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/pull/7258))

With this release we include a larger number of `math` commands for real valued math such as trigonometric functions and logarithms.
The goal is to remove the `math eval` command that operates on strings instead of proper nushell expressions.

#### Constants

- `math pi`
- `math tau`
- `math e`

#### Trigonometry and hyperbolic functions

- `math sin`
- `math cos`
- `math tan`
- `math sinh`
- `math cosh`
- `math tanh`
- `math arcsin`
- `math arccos`
- `math arctan`
- `math arcsinh`
- `math arccosh`
- `math arctanh`

#### Logarithms

- `math log`
- `math ln`

``` sh
> math pi | math cos
-1
> math e | math ln
1
> [16 8 4 2] | math log 2
[4 3 2 1]
```

## New command `uniq-by` ([raccmonteiro](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/pull/7295))

To complement `uniq` which can identify unique or duplicated values in a collection or report the number of occurrences for a particular entry, we now have `uniq-by`.
It supports filtering a table by entries appearing in a particular column.

```
〉[[fruit day]; [apple monday] [apple friday] [Apple friday] [apple monday] [pear monday] [orange tuesday]] | uniq-by fruit
╭───┬────────┬─────────╮
│ # │ fruit  │   day   │
├───┼────────┼─────────┤
│ 0 │ apple  │ monday  │
│ 1 │ Apple  │ friday  │
│ 2 │ pear   │ monday  │
│ 3 │ orange │ tuesday │
╰───┴────────┴─────────╯
```

## Mutable data structures can now have their inner values mutated using `=` ([webbedspace](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/pull/7318))

If a variable has been defined as mutable using the recently-added `mut` keyword, you can now deeply mutate its inner values using `=`.
```
〉mut a = { b: 1 }
〉$a.b = 2
〉$a.c = 3
〉$a | to nuon
{b: 2, c: 3}
```
This syntax enhancement was added primarily to make modifying `$env.config` during a normal session much easier. Now, `$env.config` is considered inherently mutable. You can change a single config value like so:
```
$env.config.table.mode = compact_double
```
…and it will remain in effect for the rest of the session.

## More sophisticated coloring of data values using closures ([webbedspace](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/pull/7141))

The `color_config` config record has new functionality: instead of specifying a single color name for all values of a given type, you may now alternatively provide a closure that dynamically computes a color for each individual value. The closure takes, as input, a single value of the given type, and must produce either a string value representing a color, or a `{ fg, bg, attr }` record (the same as what `color_config` already accepts as a color value). This feature can be used to provide important visual distinctions between ranges of values in data.

Here are some examples.
```
filesize: {|e|
	if $e == 0b { 'dark_gray'
	} else if $e < 1mb { 'cyan_bold'
	} else { 'blue_bold' }
}
```
This causes all filesize values to be colored using `dark_gray` if they equal `0b`, `cyan_bold` if they are less than `1mb`, and `blue_bold` otherwise. This means that, in `ls` output, empty files can be more easily distinguished from non-empty ones.

```
bool: { if $in { 'light_cyan' } else { 'light_gray' } }
```
This colors `true` in `light_cyan`, and `false` in `light_gray`. This can be useful when browsing a large table of booleans.

The themes in the default `config.nu` file have been updated with further examples of these closures.

In certain situations (most notably, during a single `ls` call that isn't piped to anything else) Nushell will parallelize the execution of these closures. As such, you cannot expect that they will run in the same order as each value appears in the output data.

:::warning
Currently, closures are only supported for output values - they do not work with color settings that begin with `shape_`, such as `shape_literal`. They also do not work with the color configuration for the new `explore` command.
:::

# Breaking changes
- `split row` command will retain an empty string if splitted string is empty. ([#7413](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/pull/7413))
- [The `--show-created-paths` flag has been replaced by `--verbose` from `mkdir`](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/pull/7462).


# Full changelog

