---
title: Nushell 0.70
author: The Nu Authors
author_site: https://twitter.com/nu_shell
author_image: https://www.nushell.sh/blog/images/nu_logo.png
excerpt: Today, we're releasing version 0.70 of Nu. This release includes bugfixes and improvements to existing languages.
---

# Nushell 0.70

Nushell, or Nu for short, is a new shell that takes a modern, structured approach to your commandline. It works seamlessly with the data from your filesystem, operating system, and a growing number of file formats to make it easy to build powerful commandline pipelines.

Today, we're releasing version 0.70 of Nu. This release includes bugfixes and improvements to existing language features.
<!-- more -->

# Where to get it

Nu 0.70 is available as [pre-built binaries](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/releases/tag/0.70.0) or from [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/nu). If you have Rust installed you can install it using `cargo install nu`.

If you want all the built-in goodies, you can install `cargo install nu --features=extra`.

As part of this release, we also publish a set of optional plugins you can install and use with Nu. To install, use `cargo install nu_plugin_<plugin name>`.

# Themes of this release


### Summary of deprecations



## Grammar Experiments (JT)

We've recently also started working on some improvements to Nushell's syntax. While these aren't part of Nushell 0.69, you can try this experimental syntax in our new [grammar](https://github.com/nushell/grammar) repo. Some experiments we're looking into:

Traditional function definition syntax
```
def foo(x: int) { ... }
```

Traditional function call syntax
```
foo(3)
```

And much more. We're hoping to talk more about these experiments as they mature.

## New table flags

 -  `--expand`: changes a standard table view; expand the table structure so internally all data will be displayed as inner tables
    
    #### **NOTICE**
    The `expand` mode can be considered generally slower than a base table view.
    So, if you have a large data set it may be slow.
    
 -  `--expand-deep {int}`: set a limit after which table enlargement is stopped
 -  `--flatten`: an `--expand` view option to return a set of values instead of table for a simple lists
 -  `--flatten-separator {char}`: a configuration of a separator for `--flatten`
 -  `--collapse`: changes a standard table view; expand the table structure in a squashed way
    
    #### **NOTICE**
    `collapse` mode currently doesn't support width control, therefore if your terminal is not wide enough the table might be broken.
    The `collapse` mode can be considered generally slower than a base table view.
    So, if you have a large data set it may be slow.


# Breaking changes

The command `first 1` now returns a list with the single value rather than the value itself. This brings it in line with the behaviour of `last 1`.

# Next Steps

We've been progressing with our design towards 0.80 as outlined in [this Notion page](https://kubouch.notion.site/4db276462ba24704919edb4cc4b86be7?v=10506505557f4f7b9a65155128c04250).

Some time was spent trying out possible new syntax directions but we were not confident to release them yet. In the next release we'll see a removal of features deprecated in this release and we'll continue to push ahead for the 0.80.

# Full changelog

## Nushell


## Extension


## Documentation


## Nu_Scripts

## reedline

