---
title: Nushell 0.77
author: The Nu Authors
author_site: https://twitter.com/nu_shell
author_image: https://www.nushell.sh/blog/images/nu_logo.png
excerpt: Today, we're releasing version 0.77 of Nu.
---

# Nushell 0.77

Nushell, or Nu for short, is a new shell that takes a modern, structured approach to your command line. It works seamlessly with the data from your filesystem, operating system, and a growing number of file formats to make it easy to build powerful command line pipelines.

Today, we're releasing version 0.77 of Nu. This release adds TODO

<!-- more -->

# Where to get it

Nu 0.77 is available as [pre-built binaries](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/releases/tag/0.77.0) or from [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/nu). If you have Rust installed you can install it using `cargo install nu`.

NOTE: The optional dataframe functionality is available by `cargo install nu --features=dataframe`.

As part of this release, we also publish a set of optional plugins you can install and use with Nu. To install, use `cargo install nu_plugin_<plugin name>`.

# Themes of this release / New features

## More consistent timestamp handling 

Simplified conversion between Nushell `date` type and unix timestamps ([#8244](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/pull/8244)).  

Nushell now standardizes on representing a Unix timestamp as a number of *nanoseconds* relative to the unix epoch 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 (UTC).  Since the timestamp is stored in a (64 bit signed) Nushell `int` type, this limits the range of dates that can be represented to approximately 21-sep-1677 through 11-apr-2262. 

In prior versions, Nushell attempted to extend the range of representable dates by allowing multiple resolutions of timestamps (seconds, milliseconds as well as nanoseconds) to be stored and relied on arbitrary range check heuristics to disambiguate the value intended.  However, there were bugs in the checks and incorrect results could be produced.

With this change `<int> | into datetime` assumes the input is a number of nanoseconds and can never produce a date outside this range:

```rust
〉"7fffffffffffffff" | into int -r 16 | into datetime
Fri, 11 Apr 2262 23:47:16 +0000 (in 239 years)
〉("7fffffffffffffff" | into int -r 16) * -1 | into datetime
Tue, 21 Sep 1677 00:12:43 +0000 (345 years ago)
```

The timestamp epoch is the standard unix epoch.  Note the timezone is UTC/GMT:
```rust
〉0 | into datetime 
Thu, 01 Jan 1970 00:00:00 +0000 (53 years ago)
```

`<datetime> | into int` can now produce an error if the input is outside the supported range:
```rust
〉1492-10-12 | into int
Error: nu::shell::incorrect_value

  × Incorrect value.
   ╭─[entry #51:1:1]
 1 │ 1492-10-12 | into int
   ·              ────┬───
   ·                  ╰── DateTime out of timestamp range 1677-09-21T00:12:43 and 2262-04-11T23:47:16
   ╰────
```

And finally, although not strictly required by the above fix, `<date> | date to-record` and `<date> | date to-table` now have a `nanosecond` field containing the subsecond residue of the input value (however it was produced).
```rust
〉"7fffffffffffffff" | into int -r 16 | into datetime | date to-record
╭────────────┬───────────╮
│ year       │ 2262      │
│ month      │ 4         │
│ day        │ 11        │
│ hour       │ 23        │
│ minute     │ 47        │
│ second     │ 16        │
│ nanosecond │ 854775807 │
│ timezone   │ +00:00    │
╰────────────┴───────────╯
〉"7fffffffffffffff" | into int -r 16 | into datetime | date to-table
╭───┬──────┬───────┬─────┬──────┬────────┬────────┬────────────┬──────────╮
│ # │ year │ month │ day │ hour │ minute │ second │ nanosecond │ timezone │
├───┼──────┼───────┼─────┼──────┼────────┼────────┼────────────┼──────────┤
│ 0 │ 2262 │     4 │  11 │   23 │     47 │     16 │  854775807 │ +00:00   │
╰───┴──────┴───────┴─────┴──────┴────────┴────────┴────────────┴──────────╯
```

# Breaking changes

- `str trim` no longer has `--all`, `--both`, and `--format` flags. `str replace` should be an adequate replacement; please let us know if it is not ([#8205](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/pull/8205))

- The changes to timestamp handling noted above ([#8244](https://github.com/nushell/nushell/pull/8244)) can require code changes to existing scripts:
  * Saved data containing the results of an old datetime-to-timestamp conversion will *not* deserialize correctly when read back by the current version of Nushell.  In general, Nushell will produce incorrect datetime values without noting an error.  
  * `<int> | into datetime` now assumes nanosecond scaling for all timestamps.  You must ensure all timestamps computed by your script or retrieved from external sources are scaled appropriately.
  * `<date> | into int` can now fail, as noted above.  You cannot rely on this operation to persist a arbitrary  date.

# Full changelog

TODO
